# Getting started

1. [Installation](1._Installation.md)
2. [Database setup and management](2._Database.md)
3. [Customization](3._Customization.md)


## Customization

### Initial admin privileges

Once we are done with the istallation and we have our application running, we might want to have an access to its' web admin interface.

After logging in for the first time, click on your nickname and press "Profile" in a dropdown menu.

You will be taken to your profile page now. Copy your user ID from the url - it looks like `/users/XXXX`. 

Open up the rails console:

`rails c`

Grab the user by ID:

`user = User.find(XXXX)`

and then grant the priveleges:

`user.grant(:edit, :permissions)`

You can now use the admin interface (`/admin`). You don't need to do this for other admins - you can grant all the privileges using the web interface now.

### Adding static pages

As you work with Citadel, you may also happen to need some kind of static pages to list your rules, contact section, etc. There is a static page solution with an example available in the [ozfortress](https://github.com/ozfortress/citadel/tree/ozfortress) branch. 

Rails is a MVC web framework, which means that most of the requests are being proceeded through 3 components: Model, View and a Controller. The good place to read about this is [RoR guides](https://guides.rubyonrails.org).

For static pages we will just work with the View part.

Create a new file  `/app/views/pages/newpage.html.haml`

Set its' content to
```
- content_for(:title) { 'Page Title' }

-# rubocop:disable Rails/OutputSafety

= raw File.read(Rails.root.join('public', 'newpage.html.txt'))

-# rubocop:enable Rails/OutputSafety
```
This tells Rails to wrap contents of a static file into application layout and render it as a site page.

Create a file with the raw html content in `public/newpage.html.txt`

```
<h1>Title</h1>
<p>Hello World!</p>
```

And then route our new page in `/config/routes.rb`

```
...

get 'pages/home'

get 'newpage', to:  'pages#newpage'

...
```

Thats it, the new page can now be accessed by going to `ip_or_sitename/newpage`.

You can also add your page to the navbar menu: `/views/application/_navbar.html.haml`

```
%li{ class: navbar_class(:newpage) }

= link_to('New page', :newpage)
```
### Sending emails

Citadel is using Action Mailer to form and send emails. Emails are being sent whenever the user recieves a site notification. You can find an example mail configuration [here](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_mailer_basics.html#action-mailer-configuration). 

Please bear in mind that if you did not set your maling service correctly, the application will throw an error. 

Mail configuration can be found in your environment config files under `/config/environments`

### Disabling emails

If you want to have your application free from having to deal with emails (and also free yourself from having to set and configuring the mailing service), you can disable the mailing completely. This is not recommended.

One of the simplest ways to do it is to simply remove the email field from the user form - `/app/views/users/_user_form.html.haml`

Remove the line:
`= f.text_field :email, label: user_p.confirmation_label`

Email is not required for signing up so we shall not worry about any errors being thrown or validations not passing. 